"Because With a SIMM - a Syntax independent model of the whole project - everything downstream from that gets simpler. Much, Much, Simpler! 

This is the same information, but built in a context that is completely free from syntax.
Yes - this model uses some english words - but the relationships of these family members is not coupled to a description.
We can see that Alice is Charlie is her son, and Bob is her Husband.
We can also see the Dingo is  a White Fluffy Dog.

This model, unlike the Syntax-Locked versions is not a description of the 
jones family, it is a mirror of it - with just One Charlie.  And since he
Is a boy - Alice have a Son Charlie.  But if instead, Charlie were a Girl,
Then she Alice and Bob would have a Daugher.

As you can see, this model is always internally consiste - and that is
specifically possible, because this is not a description of the family,
it is a Mirror Of it.

Now - the next logical question would be to point out that spreadsheets
are not an effective way to communicate.  So while they may be interanlly
consistent - what can we DO with this model, that we couldn't just do 
with a Syntax-Locked version of the same details?

Well - let's select and copy all these details from Air table, which 
contains all the details about the family, and see what ChatGPT has to 
say about it.

So we can go to ChatGPT - and simply paste in the story - and ask it to
describe the family - and everything that's provided is from that spreadsheet,
and GPT goes ahead and writes a correct, accurate, up to date description 
of the family. Including all the meta data about Charlie's Birthday, 
and where dingo came from. 

The most important key to keep in mind here though, is that this description
is not the \"source\" of that knowledge.  It is derived *from* the source.

The source of this knowledge is back in air table. Here, we can even make 
changes - like the introduction of  Frank into the picture.  At the moment, 
there are just 4 active members of the family.  So down in the Inactive group 
of Family Members, we can see that Frank is current UNRELATED to the family.  
So none of his associated relationships are ingluded either.

But if we just drag him up into the active group - now all of the 
relationships are updated to include Frank, and his biography is inclued as well.

With that change made, we can then again copy/paste the details from our 
syntax independent model of the family - and paste it into ChatGPT. Once 
again, it is able to create a seamless, always internally consistent 
description of the family. now also including Frank, and the associated
implication that he might actually be Charlie's bio-dad.
 
What we can see from the air table version, is that frank is mentioned 
multiple times, describing who he is and how he is related to the family 
There are then also additional mentions in ChatGPTs description of the 
data from air table now include the detail that Frank might be the bio-dad.
Frank will be included in these kinds of syntax locked versions, up to and until 
he is not longer included in the model.


Back in air table - frank was determined to be unrelated, and so we will 
drag him back out of the ACTIVE group.  And then - let's pretend that a 
new family member, maria, who plays the violin enters the family.  
Once again, the stories update. In this case, we can see that Alice 
is mother of the Child... Maria.

Once again, we'll copy/paste the whole story as it currently is - 
and paste it into chatgpt like before. Once again - it should now 
mention that they have 2 children - and

And when we ask who Frank is, it says that there is no mention of Frank - because 
he's not the dad.  We just dragged him down in Air table, to the Inactive
group, and then he (and all of his associated relationships went away from the 
active model).

We can ask who Maria is and it tells us about them as well.  Because it knows. 



And we can ask it to describe the whole family once again, and it creates an 
always internally consistent description of the whole family, now including 
the fact that there are now 4 \"humans\" and 1 dog.  And that maria plays the 
violin,  And uses the appropriate They, Them pronouns when referring to them. Here 
again, it is important to note that this syntax-locked content is not the 
source of the knowledge.  It is derived from the Source, which is in air table.

Where, back here on the main page - we can continue to make other changes as 
well, including new ones in addition to what happened in the previous demo.  

For example, Let's start by making Alice a Mechanic - which is what she is.

Let's also Update Bob - because he is a teacher and also still a parent.

Selecting the current family details, 

Copy/paste to ChatGPT like Usual - and let's see what we get.

Once again we get a description of the family, but this time, we get the description of the family with Alice specifically mentioned as a mechanic, and Bob as a school teacher. Along with continuing to refer to Charlie as the owner of dingo, that he got for his 12th birthday.

And so I can also now ask what they do professionally though - and it can describe what it knows of their background..",